Systems

Shields  (Regeneration is affected by the regen to shield ratio--lowering the max shields will automatically increase the actual regeneration rate and vice-versa
Advanced +50% effectiveness, +100% cost
Hyper +150% effectiveness, +200% cost

Coil > Bridge > Regulator > Emitter

,PART, Name, Type, Graphic, Description

"Weapon", Name, Dice, Damage, Bonus
"Bulletinfo", Graphnumber, Speed, Duration, Maxhits
"WeaponFire", ???, fire wait, power use, Turret (1 if turret)
"WeaponSpec", Flag, Num, , ,
,EFFECT, Shield,ShieldBon, Regen, Max, Reflection, ,
,EFFECT, Power, Power Gen (Negative for use), Fuel gen, Power Max, 
,EFFECT, Engine, Thruster, Hyper, ,
,EFFECT, Extraneous, Weight, HP, ,
,EFFECT, WeaponMult, Weapon Multiplier (1.1 for example), Energy Use Multiplier, Fire Rate Multiplier,
'1 = Red Blaster
'2 = Green Blaster
'3 = Blue Blaster
'4 = Purple Blaster
'5 = Red Phaser
'6 = Green Phaser
'7 = Blue Phaser
'8 = Purple Phaser
'9 = Red Laser
'10 = Green Laser
'11 = Blue Laser
'12 = Purple Laser

'13 = Orange Phaser

>>>ADD GRAPHICS TO THESE<<<
Graphics are now right after part type and just before the description!

#PART, Ezotronic Coil, Shield Coil, parts-turbine.jpg, This is the basic unit for the generation of shields.  Ezotronic coils store, generate and distribute shield energy across the manifold, meaning greater numbers of coils uniformly increase most areas of shield power.
#EFFECT, Shield, 5, , ,
#EFFECT, Power, -3, 0, ,

#PART, Ezotron Regulator, Shield Regulator, parts-bijdang1.jpg, This device releases shield energy to the emitter, ensuring a constant supply of energy to keep the shield envelope stable.
#EFFECT, Shield, 5, , ,
#EFFECT, Power, -1, 0, ,

#PART, Ezotron Bridge, Shield Bridge, parts-greenbridge.jpg, "These are intermediary systems that carry shield energy across towards the emitters--due to the high-energy nature of the shield energy generated by most ezotronic turbines, it is unsafe and inefficient to directly connect an ezotronic coil to the emitter it serves.  Bridges refine the energy and optimize it for the emitters' use."
#EFFECT, Shield, 0, 10, ,

#PART, Shield Emitter, Shield Emitter, parts-emitter1.jpg, "These devices project and maintain a controlled ezotronic field around the ship which protects it from physical damage.  These fields are traditionally referred to as 'shields'.  Ezotron fields are effectively ablative, as they lose much of their energy when they are struck by weapons fire, but this energy is gradually replenished by the shielding systems onboard the ship until the shield is once again at full capacity. (+10 Regen, +40 Shields)"
#EFFECT, Shield, 10, 40, 1, 
#EFFECT, Power, -2, 0, ,

#PART, Cryoregulator, Shield Regulator, "These devices focus and stabilize ezotron flow in such a way that a much higher ezotron speed and throughput is possible without risking burnout of the emitter.  The effect of this is a much higher energy stability of the shield manifold, along with a much higher capacity for power throughput to the shield emitter, increasing it's regeneration rate and maximum throughput. The one minor drawback is the highly stabilized ezotrons are slightly less reactive than they would normally be.  (-1 to reflection, +25% to regeneration rate, +10% to max shields)"
#EFFECT, Shield, 5, , ,
#EFFECT, ShieldBon, 1.25, 10, -1,

#PART, Cyclic Regulator, Shield Regulator, "Cyclic regulators are secondary coils for the amplification and generation of additional shield power.  The delay this process causes in shield system throughput degrades the system's regeneration rate, but the regulator significantly increases the overall power of the shields generated by the connected emitter. (-25% to regen rate, +75% to max shields)"
#EFFECT, Shield, 5, , ,
#EFFECT, ShieldBon, .75, 1.75, , 

#PART, Shunt Regulator, Shield Regulator, "These devices provide only minimal energy regulation in favor of putting the energy through to the emitter as quickly as possible without damaging it.  This has the effect of increasing the rate at which the emitter can regenerate shields, at the cost of slightly degraded overall performance. (+25% regen rate, -25% max)"
#EFFECT, Shield, 5, , ,
#EFFECT, ShieldBon, 1.25, .75, ,

#PART, Prismatic Regulator, Shield Regulator, "Prismatic regulators are highly advanced devices which split and amplify ezotronic energy into more specialized forms, then tighten the resulting energies into a cohesive energy stream which is fed to the shield emitter.  The prism even doubles as a specialized coil and regulator set, adding additional, highly concentrated shield energy to the stream.  Not only can nearly any emitter take the resulting energies, but the enhancements made by the prism mean that shield performance is vastly increased almost regardless of what other equipment is connected to the prism.  The specialized energies increase shield reflectivity, the concentrated beam strengthens the shield manifold, and while the flow of shield energy is slowed down by the presence of a prismatic regulator, the potency of the shield energy put out is such that more actual strength is attained in the same amount of time.  The power draw on these systems is very high, but they are a powerful upgrade to those vessels which can afford to mount them.  (+3 reflection, +10 regen, +50 max)"
#EFFECT, Shield, 55, 10, 3,

#PART, Prismatic Bridge, Shield Bridge, "A similar but highly scaled down version of the Prismatic Regulator, Prismatic bridges split shield energy into more specialized forms, amplify them and refocus them into a concentrated stream, but to prevent delays in shield generation and minimize power draw the amount by which they do this is minimal.  (+1 to reflection, +25% to regen, +25% to max)"
#EFFECT, Shield, 0, 10, 1,
#EFFECT, ShieldBon, 1.25, 1.25, ,

#PART, Prismatic Emitter, Shield Emitter, "Prismatic Emitters are the ultimate adjunct to prismatic regulators, as they are capable of taking the specialized spectrums of shield energy and projecting them directly into the shield manifold without piggybacking them on standard shield streams.  The resulting prismatic shields vastly increase the overall effectiveness of the ship's defenses and give it specialized resistances to many types of weapons regardless of the current shielding level.
(Regen 50, 300 Shields, +3 Reflectivity, +100% reflectivity)"
#EFFECT, Shield, 50, 300, 3, 
#EFFECT, ShieldBon, , , 2,

Shield Manifold Regulator (Drive,Computer)
Shield manifold regulators increase the efficiency of your shields by exerting finer control of their energy output.  They increase the defensive reliability of all shielding units onboard without requiring additional upgrades to other emitters. As this is almost entirely a control issue, the power requirements on manifold regulators are negligible. (+X armor to all shields, +X% max shields)

Bridge Flow Controller (Controller)
These devices fine-tune the energy flow and regulation on all bridge-type systems onboard the ship.  They are programmed to be capable of regulating not only shield bridges but also weapon bridges, making them an effective overall upgrade to a combat ship for a modest price.  (+X% to all abilities of bridges)

Turbonic Bridge (Bridge)
Turbonic bridges are secondary turbines that greatly increase overall shield power, but the amplification process significantly slows down the throughput of shield energy, reducing the shield's regeneration rate. Turbonic regulators require a small amount of fuel to power their amplification turbines.  (+100 max shields, -25 regen)

Turbonic Regulator (Regulator)
Turbonic regulators serve as secondary turbines which further amplify shield energy, strengthening shields at the cost of slightly slower shield regeneration and increased energy usage.  Turbonic regulators consume modest amounts of fuel to power the amplification turbines, making them powerful defensive upgrades on ships with high fuel capacity but making them a slight liability on small vessels with a lower fuel capacity. (+150 Max Shields, -10 Regen)

Manifold Stabilizer (Emitter)
Manifold stabilizers manipulate the energy in the shield manifold, forming a more uniform and stable shielding envelope.  They increase the defensive reliability of all shielding units onboard the ship without requiring additional upgrades to other emitters.  Though stabilizers add their own energy to the manifold, their fine control of how and when they add energy gives them a comparatively poor regeneration rate and shield level on their own. (+25% to all shields, +25 Shields, +15 Regen)

Cooling Bridge (Bridge)
Cooling bridges are a basic Ezotron bridge upgrade that serve to help stabilize shield energy as it passes through them.  This slightly increases shielding efficiency and reduces wear on affected systems.  (+5% to max shields, -X% to wear)

Ezotronic Amplifier (Bridge)
Ezotronic amplifiers are a shielding upgrade which run shielding energy through a high-energy amplification turbine before releasing them into the shield manifold.  This increases shielding power at the expense of a significantly increased full-recharge time.  The actual regeneration rate is only slightly less than the shield's would be without the increased top charge level, meaning this upgrade is most often worth it on any ship with adequate shield regeneration. Ezotronic amplifiers have a moderately high energy requirement. (+10 to max shields)

Ezotronic Turbine (Coil)
These are shield energy generators with vastly improved output, essentially turbocharging your shield's regeneration rate.  This regeneration rate is still limited by the throughput of other components on the same circuit--higher powered emitters and coils are generally required to extract peak performance out of the heavier ezotronic turbines.  The raw power of ezotronic turbines means they place a very high drain on overall system power. (+50 regen, +25 Shields, loses efficiency with cheap-ass parts)

Reactive Spectrum Coil (Coil)
These devices produce a wider spectrum of ezotronic sub-types designed to increase the shield's reactivity to incoming fire.  This serves to increase the amount of incoming damage that is nullified by spalling, reflection and defraction when it hits the shield.  The amount of damage inflicted on the shield by most weapons is thus reduced, making these systems superior to standard coils, but the total shield efficiency is reduced compared to other specialized coils. (+5 to reflection, -10% max shields)

Prismatic Coil (Coil)
These are similar in function to reactive spectrum coils, but the spectrums they produce are more similar to those generated by prismatic regulators.  The amount of reflection is reduced, but there is a subsequent boost in other areas of shield performance. These devices are far more expensive than reactive spectrum coils, however.  (+3 to reflection, +25% regen, +50% shields)

Backcross Shunt (Bridge)
Backcross shunts are high-output ezotron circuits which superaccellerate shield energy to distribute it across the manifold at much higher speeds.  This has the beneficial effect of significantly improving regeneration rates and overall energy throughput, but the accelleration process puts limits on the total energy levels and stability attainable by the shield manifold, somewhat reducing the actual defensive power of the shield.  (+50% to regeneration, -50% to max shields)

Balancing Dish (Expansion)
These are essentially shield energy recyclers which draw energy from strong areas of the shield and redirect them to significantly weakened areas.  This has the dual effect of replenishing depleted areas of the shield but also increasing overall manifold balance.  (+15% to all max shields, +10% to regen)

Ezotronic Turbo Array (Emitter)
These specialized shield emitters are designed to fire shield energy into the manifold at the maximum possible rates, drawing excess power backwards through the shielding system in order to do so.  This has adverse effects on the stability of the shield manifold and gives them a huge power requirement, but Turbo Arrays are capable of regenerating shields with unparalleled speed.  The power draw on Turbo Arrays vastly increases while they are in use, but they automatically switch to a more stable maintanence mode when the shield has reached it's maximum capacity.
Turbo arrays decrease the overall power of the shields on a ship, but cause it's existing shields to regenerate far more quickly.  They are a useful strategic upgrade for ships that take a high concentration of fire, or ships who's other emitters are strong enough to compensate for the shield's degradation in performance.  Turbo arrays draw huge amounts of power through the systems they are attached to, requiring that some sort of high-capacity bridge and preferably an improved regulator be wired to them.  (75 Shields, 100 Regen, Low shield max, extreme regeneration, cannot be placed on a circuit with any cheap-ass parts or they risk burnout)

Shield generator that draws in power or fuel rather than generating shields



Expansions

Starleather Armor
"Starleather is to starships what standard leather is to foot soldiers--armor on a budget, which affords better protection than nothing but is ineffective compared to most other armor choices.  Starleather is good for light ships or pilots who are just starting out, but it's nominal protective capabilities are not enough for heavier warships.  The one advantage to Starleather is it is far lighter than most other armors, so many light couriers and scouts choose it even when they are capable of affording better protection."

Steel Armor
"Steel is the standard armor and superstructure material for most starships, providing decent protection for a price most pilots can handle.  It's not stellar by any means, but it will keep the lasers out provided you don't get into too heavy of fighting.  It's weight to defense ratio is fairly poor, but it's quite inexpensive compared to other armors."

Xetacrystalline Lattice Armor
"Xetacrystalline Lattice Armor is extremely difficult to manufacture, and this is reflected quite clearly in it's price.  However, it's protective qualities are well worth the expense, as a ship in lattice armor can shrug off even a heavy warship's firepower long enough to return fire."


Weapons

Energy:
Actuator > Energy Bridge > Prysmic Focus > Weapon

Ammo:
Clip > Loading Mechanism > Launcher
or maybe Clip > Clip > Clip > Launcher?

Weapon Actuator
These devices are essentially capacitors that produce a potent spike of energy to initiate weapons fire.  Basic actuators are effective but unimpressive devices--they provide sufficient energy to allow most weapons to operate at their rated performance.
#EFFECT, Power, -2, , ,
#EFFECT, WeaponMult, 1, 1, 1,

Energy Bridge
These devices smooth out the energy spike and make sure it is within accepted tolerances for the weapon.  Weapon energy is in a highly unstable form when first released from an actuator, thus requiring the use of a bridge to prevent damage to the weapon mechanism.
#EFFECT, WeaponMult, 1, 1, 1,

Prysmic Focus
These devices are designed to increase weapon damage by providing a final energy stage before feeding the energy to the weapon.  It further smooths the energy spike whilst concentrating it into the perfect form for optimal weapons performance.  Standard prysmic focuses are simple crystalline lenses which focus the energy beam.
#EFFECT, WeaponMult, 1, 1, 1,

Weapon
This is the slot for the actual weapon.  Specs will vary according to the weapon mounted.

Overcross Shunt (Bridge)
Overcross shunts refine weapon energy and strip off inefficient power fields, allowing parts of it to be recycled back into the weapon system's power grid with only a minor loss in damage potential.  This significantly reduces the practical energy requirement for firing the weapon.  Overcross shunts power themselves with siphoned weapon energy before feeding it back to the grid, giving them virtually no power requirement. (-30% Energy to fire, -15% damage)
#EFFECT, Power, -1, , ,
#EFFECT, WeaponMult, .85, 1, .7,

Braid Shunt (Bridge)
These devices cross-amplify weapon energy frequencies in specialized cyclic capacitors, increasing both rate of fire and weapon damage for weapons they are fed to.  The ratio of power requirement to damage increase for braid shunts is very attractive compared to other amplification systems, but their high-energy nature and small size also makes them highly volatile.  (+20% Damage, +10% Fire Rate, +15% energy)
#EFFECT, Power, -2, , ,
#EFFECT, WeaponMult, 1.2, .9, 1.15,

Concentrator (Focus)
A popular upgrade for laser weapons, concentrators focus the weapon's energy into a tight, more powerful pulse.  This not only increases it's maximum potential damage, but noticeably increases the damage that the average shot will inflict.  Concentrators slightly decrease a weapon's rate of fire, and increase it's power requirement.  (Adds 60% to damage, -10% to fire rate, +30% to energy.)
#EFFECT, Power, -1, , ,
#EFFECT, WeaponMult, 1.6, 1.1, 1.3,

Prismatic Amplifier (Focus)
Prismatic Amplifiers, much like prismatic shields, apply a prismatic amplification system to weapon energy, changing it's characteristics slightly just before releasing them to the weapon.  This broader range of energy reduces the weaknesses of the weapon, meaning it inflicts better damage against targets that would normally be resistant to it.  (Removes negative percentages on weapon)

Pulse Capacitor (Actuator)
Pulse capacitors amplify and cycle incoming energy, rapidly releasing it to the weapon in short, powerful bursts.  This serves to noticeably increase a weapon's fire rate, making it easier to hit fast targets and actually increasing overall damage over time.  Pulse capacitors require a higher power draw from the ship, so you had best make sure you have the spare power to compensate both for the capacitor and the weapon's new rate of fire.  (+70% fire rate, -30% damage)
#EFFECT, Power, -4, , ,
#EFFECT, WeaponMult, .7, .3, 1,

Flux Turbotron (Actuator)
Flux turbotrons draw excess energy from the power grid according to it's natural fluctuations and use it to send out larger pulses of weapon energy.  This process is very rapid, making lag on the weapon's fire time minimal, but the potency of the amplification process varies according to unpredictable fluctuations in the ship's energy grid.  This effect balances out as the Turbotrons fill their capacitors, giving a more reliable level of increase on the weapon when it is not fired for a short period.  (+random% to weapon damage)

Spike Actuator (Actuator)
Spike actuators are powerful capacitors which store far greater amounts of energy for use in weapon pulses.  They are so-named because they require a tremendous spike of power to release their energy and initiate weapons fire, meaning their energy draw is far greater than that of a standard actuator.  This drawback is more than compensated for by the increased damage to the weapon, however, and these are excellent upgrades to ships with extra, unused power. (+150% damage, +100% energy, high standard power draw)
#EFFECT, Power, -10, , ,
#EFFECT, WeaponMult, 2.5, 1, 2,


,PART, Name, Type, Graphic, Description
"Weapon", Name, Dice, Damage, Bonus
"Bulletinfo", Graphnumber, Speed, Duration, Maxhits
"WeaponFire", ??? (Ammo?), fire wait, power use, 
"WeaponSpec", Flag, Num, , ,
,EFFECT, Shield,ShieldBon, Regen, Max, Reflection, ,
,EFFECT, Power, Power use, Fuel use, , 
,EFFECT, Engine, Thruster, Hyper, , 
,EFFECT, Extraneous, Weightmod, , ,
,EFFECT, WeaponMult, Weapon Multiplier (1.1 for example), Energy Use Multiplier, Fire Rate Multiplier,

'1 = Red Blaster
'2 = Green Blaster
'3 = Blue Blaster
'4 = Purple Blaster
'5 = Red Phaser
'6 = Green Phaser
'7 = Blue Phaser
'8 = Purple Phaser
'9 = Red Laser
'10 = Green Laser
'11 = Blue Laser
'12 = Purple Laser

'13 = Orange Phaser

#PART, Heavy Laser, Weapon, parts-heavylaser1.jpg, "Heavy lasers, as their name would imply, are essentially just a heavy-duty version of the standard laser.  They inflict much heavier damage than their lighter counterparts, but their fire rate suffers significantly and their power requirements are likewise far higher.  For larger ships with sufficient energy, however, a heavy laser is nothing less than a necessity--many more heavily armored ships aren't even scratched by lighter weapons."
#EFFECT, Weapon, Heavy Laser, 3, 6, 8
#EFFECT, Bulletinfo, 5, 12, 120, 1
#EFFECT, WeaponFire, ???, 18, 20, 
#EFFECT, Power, -5, 0, 0, 0

#PART, Crimson Laser, Weapon, parts-laser1.jpg, "Lasers, as they are called, are not really lasers at all, but rather a simple manifestation of destructive Z energy.  The particular characteristics of lasers can thus be quite different, and different lasers are often classified by color for simplicity's sake.  Crimson or Red lasers are most often general-purpose lasers--the most common form of laser, and the most reliable, as they damage most targets fairly equally.  Their drawback is that they are not particularly strong against any given type of target."
#EFFECT, Weapon, Crimson Laser, 1, 6, 2
#EFFECT, Bulletinfo, 9, 12, 80, 1
#EFFECT, WeaponFire, ???, 15, 6, 
#EFFECT, Power, -3, 0, 0, 0

(Lasers:  Light, 1d6+2, Medium, 2D6+4, Heavy, 3D6+8)

Green Laser
Green lasers are specialized for use against biological creatures--carnivorous void-beasts that ply the spaceways looking for unwary ships to devour whole.  A ship properly equipped with green lasers has a much better chance of properly fighting off these creatures, but at a significant disadvantage against normal ships as green lasers are fairly ineffectual against non-organic targets.

Blue Laser
Blue lasers are specialized for use against starships.  They inflict serious damage against shields and starship hulls, but are significantly less effective against organic targets such as space monsters.

Purple Laser
Purple lasers are more potent, less specialized forms of Blue Lasers.  They do more damage overall than blue lasers, but still tend to do more damage to starships than organic targets.

Shock cannon
Shock cannons cause structural fracturing and energy feedback on targets across a wide area.  This design means that they inflict damage according to the mass of the target they are striking--small targets take only minor damage, but large targets take much higher levels of damage than they normally would.  Shock cannons can inflict attrocious levels of damage, but have a very slow rate of fire and high energy use. (10% of ship's current HP)

Plasma Cannons
A very high-damage weapon, the plasma cannon operates by forming dense bolts of superheated matter that it flings towards the enemy at high speed.  Causing both heat and secondary kinetic damage, the biggest drawback to these devastating weapons is that they consume fuel with each shot. (Damage: Medium: 4D6+20, Heavy 8D20)

Phasers
Phasers, as everyone knows, are extremely hyped-up weapons that never seem to do any actual damage to anything.  Lower-budget starships often start with these as their main armament.  Phasers can inflict light damage upon most types of targets, but they are comparatively weak choices.  Their prime attractiveness is their minimal power draw--they will fire at roughly the same rate even with minimal power available.  Phasers are also very affordable, actually having an excellent cost-to-damage ratio, meaning they're good for filling up empty weapons slots if nothing else.
(Standard 1D4+1, Heavy 1D8+4)

Bloodrays
Bloodrays are so-named for their deep crimson color--though the beams look similar to red lasers, Bloodrays are hyper-concentrated forms that are capable of causing severe damage to both starships and biological enemies.  They are particularly good at punching through shields, meaning oftentimes some damage will splash through to an enemy's hull even when their shields are still intact.  Their tendency to punch through shields and subsequently hulls prematurely has made them an unpopular weapon with most civilized factions.

Pulserays
Pulserays are rapid-fire weapons, capable of extremely good recharge times, albeit with a fairly high power draw.  They inflict excellent damage against biological targets and very good damage against starships in addition to their high rate of fire, but their power use is very high.
(3D8)

Blasters (projectile)
Blasters inflict similar damage to medium lasers, but their rapid-moving and rapid-firing projectiles make them an attractive dogfighting weapon.
(3D6)

Neurion Cannon (Heavy Weapon)
These weapons fire hyperenergized energy streams at enemy vessels which cause their hulls to react violently and destroy themselves.  These weapons do only minor damage against shields, but against an unshielded hull, the damage inflicted can be quite serious.  Heavy Neurion cannons rival heavy plasma cannons in raw damage potential, and against an unshielded ship, the damage can be even greater.
(-75% damage against shields, 4D12+12, Heavy: 8D12+40)

Hellfire System
Heavy elemental fire weapons consisting of a fuel converter and a flame accellerator, these are short-ranged weapons that hold the distinction of attacking an entire area at once.  They inflict decent damage, but their greatest advantage is that they can strike multiple ships at once and continue doing damage so long as any vessel is within your flame jet.  (1 Damage, does not dissappear when it hits something)

Crescent Beams
A light assault weapon that fires magically-formed energy crescents at the enemy, crescent beams inflict respectable damage but are primarily favored for their extremely low power use.  Crescent beam cannons are practically magical artifacts, and while this increases their cost significantly, their damage to power ratio is practically unbeatable.
(2D8 damage, very low power use)

Rocket Launcher
Rocket launchers are designed to fire a variety of self-propelled missiles, and many are built to adapt to several sizes of missile as well.  These are excellent both for their damage potential and for their ability to strike fast-moving targets, and are ideal for light warships, but they require that you resupply your rockets periodically, making them a liability for long-range explorator-type vessels.  They are an excellent basic weapon, and though they cannot be enhanced by secondary systems they can be supplied with more advanced rockets and feeding mechanisms, increasing their power and value.
Rockets--These are the basic rocket type for missile launchers.  They pack in a large amount of ammunition for their size, do decent damage, and fire extremely quickly.  Their drawback is that they have no tracking capability.
Missiles--These are tracking weapons that inflict moderate damage.
Homing Missiles--These missiles trade warhead yield for more sophisticated target tracking.
Cluster rockets--These are multi-fire rocket packs with limited tracking capability.
Torpedoes--These are powerful dumb-fire weapons that inflict very high damage.
MIRV--These are multiple warhead rockets that fly a short distance before splitting into a large number of smaller rockets.  Striking with the MIRV before it splits wastes much of it's destructive capacity, as the warheads cannot detonate properly until they enter their terminal flight phase.


Power

Linkage > Generator > Regulator > Distributor?  (Or just have power systems be one-slot, or expansions, or combine power and engines?)

,PART, Name, Type, Graphic, Description

#PART, Power Turbine, Expansion, parts-bijdang1.jpg, These are the basic power generation systems for most starships.  They essentially 'burn off' fuel into energy to power the ship's energy grid.  Fuel economy on turbines is fairly good, but large numbers of turbines can chew through fuel quite quickly.
#EFFECT, Power, 15, 1, 40, 

Phase Generator
Phase generators take starship fuel and convert it directly into power, meaning no energy is lost in the conversion.  This leads to very high fuel efficiency and tremendous energy output, at the cost of an equally high rate of fuel consumption.

Cyclotron
Cyclotrons do not actually generate energy on their own--rather, they amplify starship power as it passes through the grid, leading to a higher overall energy level without increasing fuel requirements or adding the necessity for additional power generators.  Engineering constraints mean they have an upper limit as to how much energy can amplify, but they can be an excellent efficiency boost for most mid-sized ships.  (+X% power, +X maximum)

SuperCyclotron
Supercyclotrons are greatly improved cyclotrons that have a much higher energy cieling for amplification.  They can vastly increase the energy throughput of the overall power grid, but unlike normal cyclotrons, they consume fuel in moderate quantities that increase in rough proportion to their current throughput.  Despite this, they have much higher fuel efficiency than most generators, making them a good investment on large, power-intensive ships.

Supersolar Vortex Turbine
These tremendous generators produce incredible levels of heat and energy, not only allowing them to vastly increase the damage on all plasma-type weapons mounted on the ship but also by feeding excess energy into the power grid, making the turbine an effective power generator in it's own right.  The tremendous damage inflicted by Supersolars is offset by numerous dangers it poses, however--the incredibly high energy outputs mean a damaged Supersolar will often explode, taking a hefty chunk of the ship with it.  The damage increase to plasma weapons is always substantial, but diminishes somewhat with the number of plasma weapons mounted on the ship.  Supersolars do require fuel, but not nearly as much as would be expected for a generator of their output level.  (+X% to plasma weapon damage, +X to power)

Fuel Purifier
These expensive components serve to filter and enhance fuel with specialized alchemical agents that make it easier for power generators and other fuel-consuming systems to process.  Though requiring fuel to operate themselves, they decrease the amount of fuel needed to run all other systems on the ship.

Fuel Distribution Controller (Computer)
These devices regulate the distribution and pressure levels of fuel within the ship, slightly increasing fuel efficiency.  Though pricey, they have few drawbacks and thus serve as an excellent optimization for most ships.  Larger ships will generally require more advanced distribution controllers, as their performance can begin to diminish when put in control of a very large fuel system.  

Battery System (Power and expansion)
Batteries can be mounted in either power slots or expansion slots.  They serve to store any extra energy not being used by the power grid, allowing you to get this excess power back when you need it.  It is generally still dangerous to allow power use to outstrip your generation capacity for long, but batteries allow you to do it temporarily.

Weapons Battery
These specialized batteries increase the amount of weapon energy you can store, prolonging your continuous fire time regardless of the actual power generation capabilities on your ship.  They do nothing to help replenish this power once it has been spent, however, and thus starship captains would be wise not to use them as a crutch for an inadequate power system.

Engines

Intake > Drive > Injector > Thruster

Thrusters (Thruster)
Thrusters provide a ship's basic mobility.  They are simple and efficient devices which use the ship's standard power supply to provude thrust, both in combat and during interplanetary travel.  This makes them cheap to operate and invaluable in combat conditions, but their limited top speed means a hyperdrive is often desirable in addition to the thrusters.  A ship's mass will greatly affect the amount of thrust a thruster is able to provide--large, heavy ships will require far more thrusters to maintain the same speed as a smaller or lighter ship would.  Balancing thruster capacity with armor is thus an important concern--higher thrust capacity makes your ship more difficult to hit, but also requires that your ship be lightweight, limiting the armor and offensive systems it can mount.
The basic thruster is a simple energy accellerator.  By flaring out the energy it recieves at high speeds, it causes the ship to accellerate.
The medium thruster adds an accelleration coil to the basic thruster design, firing energy out at much higher speeds, at a higher energy cost but consistent fuel cost.
The heavy thruster has a three-stage accelleration coil and a more tightly controlled flare radius, leading to greatly improved accelleration at the cost of much higher power expense and slightly increased fuel use.

Turning Jets (Thruster)
These are specialized thrusters that mount gimballed or vented thrust mechanisms that allow for controlled, direction-specific thrust. Turning jets are an important system for any combat ship, as they determine the rate at which your ship can turn, it's overall handling, and it's capability to evade enemy fire.

Evasion Thrusters (Thruster)
Evasion thrusters are designed to add an element of unpredictability to your ship's movements by thrusting in random amounts, in random directions and at random intervals.  This actually degrades the overall handling of a vessel, as extra effort is required from the main thrusters to compensate for the ship's new attitude to maintain a stable firing platform, but evasion thrusters make the ship more difficult to track and target for enemy pilots and automated tracking systems alike.  As with all thrusters, the level of effect they have depends on the overall mass and weight of the ship.
(-X% to maneuverability, +X% to evasion)

Supercharger (Intake)
These are mass energy and fuel distribution regulators which alter drive energies before feeding them into the thruster or drive they are attached to, increasing their power without causing any significant degradation of reliability or thruster system lifespan.  They do require greater amounts of fuel and energy to operate at these increased levels, but this upgrade can allow increased thruster power without sacrificing additional space.  (+X% to thrust)

Turbocyclic Generator (Intake)
These devices are placed in intake slots onboard your ship, but are actually high-powered fuel burners, converting fuel into energy in addition to serving as standard intake modules.  The turbocyclic generator draws it's fuel from whatever is already being pulled through the drive systems--the higher your total fuel use, the more power the turbocyclic generator will generate, making it a very useful upgrade for ships that find themselves in extremely fuel-intensive firefights.

Turbo Injector (Injector)
Turbo injectors only affect thruster and afterburner type drive systems.  They serve to increase fuel pressure and density when feeding the thruster, resulting in increased thrust at the cost of decreased fuel efficiency.

Kicker drive (Drive)
These devices induce specialized kinetic forces within your ship to help compensate for it's weight.  Their energy use increases with the size of ship they are mounted on, so for large ships the energy draw can be tremendous, but they can give even the largest ship an equally tremendous boost in maneuverability.  They use no fuel, but the system's high energy draw often requires fuel-intensive power generation devices to compensate for it.
(-X% to ship's effective weight, +X% to maneuverability)

Hyperdrive (Drive)
This is the basic 'cruise drive' installed on most ships.  Though distances between planets and other celestial bodies are fairly modest, there are a lot of them, and once spread out this amounts to a lot of space.  Basic thrusters prove very time-consuming to use by comparison, so most ships sport Hyperdrives--these drives are highly specialized and are impossible to use in combat except for escape purposes, but under safer circumstances they can be used to increase a ship's interplanetary travel speed.  One of the biggest advantages of hyperdrives is that they are not nearly as affected by a ship's mass as standard thrusters.  Hyperdrives use both power and fuel when active.

Metaspace Phase Conductor (Drive)
Phase conductors send a powerful energy pulse through a chamber of gaseous Zetarac, a potent substance that--among other things--is capable of shifting matter into metaspace when hit with the proper energies.  The energy pulse is tuned to produce this effect on a large scale, instantly (Or near-instantly) shifting the ship into Metaspace.  Sending a similar pulse through the chamber again returns the ship to normal space.  Phase drives need to be charged before they can create this pulse.

Metaspace Pulse Control Chip (Computer)
These are advanced control mechanisms for Metaspace Phase Conductors.  They perfectly synchronize the energy pulse, narrowing the margin of error and slightly increasing fuel economy.  (+X% chance to successfully enter metaspace, -X% to metaspace jump fuel use, -X to metaspace drive charge time, non-cumulative)

Metaspace Crystal Drive (Drive)
These drives are identical in utility to the ubiquitous Metaspace Phase drives, but rather than using a chamber of gaseous Zetarac, they use a solid Zetarac crystal.  Though vastly increasing the unit's cost, it likewise is far more efficient at shifting ships into Metaspace, both in terms of charge times and reliability.  Crystal drives can shift significantly larger ships into Metaspace safely, reducing the need for larger numbers of Phase drives.

Afterburners (Thruster)
These devices burn off fuel to provide much higher speed than a normal engine.  Though impossible to burn out, it is unwise to use them constantly as they are highly inefficient when compared with standard drives.  Afterburners are useless in metaspace.

Ramscoop (Thruster)
Ramscoops are specialized replacements for thrusters that actually gather interstellar energy and convert it into fuel.  The primary drawback to ramscoops is that they take up a thruster slot and increase the ship's weight slightly, lowering the ship's speed.  They can be a tremendous moneysaver in the long run, however, as they can generate nominal amounts of fuel for essentially no cost.

Energy Converter (Intake)
The perfect system for long range starships (And cheapskates), the energy converter allows thruster systems to operate without actually using any fuel.  The power draw is fairly high (Based on how much fuel the attached systems would normally require) but for ships that can afford the power draw these devices can greatly increase the range and economy of any vessel, and when combined with enough ramscoops, can remove the need to ever buy fuel at all.

Computers,Scanners,Interpolators (Interpolators can go in Computer or sensor slots)

[Interpolator] > Scanner
Interpolators are limited by the other sensors the ship has--they can never more than double it's capabilities.

All scanners: X Mass Range (Detect planets, etc. on map), X energy range (Detect starbases and enemy ships), X planetary scan, X detail (Information on enemy ships), X bio detail (information on space monsters), X lock-on time, X extra weapon damage, X energy weapon tracking, +X accuracy for turrets
Only highest scanner rating will be used, regardless of number of scanners.

Sensor Array
Combining most common sensor functions into a single device, the basic sensor array is the most common scanner on small ships.  It performs adequately at long-range reconnaissance and combat scanning, giving your ship the capability to detect enemy ships and other basic celestial phenomena. Planetary scanning capability is only minimal, providing only basic information on planet's surfaces.
(Low normal ratings, no weapon bonuses)

Ground Scanner
This is a specialized planetary survey scanner which provides advanced detection for lifeforms, geography, mineral content and other detailed information on planetary surfaces.  These can be invaluable at determining the threat level posed by a potential excursion to a planet's surface, and ground scanners also vastly increase the accuracy with which you can beam or land on a planet.  Ground scanners possess no other sensor capabilities.

Combat Scanner
These scanners are designed for combat and combat only.  They provide incredible levels of information regarding target vectors, speed, structural details and so forth, particularly as they pertain to combat.  This makes your ship much more capable of combating sophisticated foes, decreasing the time it takes for missiles to lock on and automatically directing weapons fire towards vulnerable areas of the enemy's ship.  The payoff is that these sensors provide virtually no capabilities outside of combat, requiring that they be combined with other sensors to provide proper sensor coverage.

Navigational Scanner
These are extremely long-range mass scanners which can detect planets, asteroids and other celestial bodies at very high ranges.  They also add some nominal planetary scanning capabilities to this, though these capabilities are noticeably inferior to those of a ground scanner.

Vector interpolation chip (Interpolator)
(+X to energy weapon tracking)

Turret Controller (Interpolator)
(+X to sensor's turret control rating)

Target Verification System (Interpolator)
(+X to missile lock rating)

Sensor Control Computer
(+X to all)

Other

Supercomputer

Cloaking Device (Shield emmitter,Expansion)
These powerful systems are capable of literally rendering the ship invisible.  The drawback is that fuel and power use are both significant, severely hampering the amount of shields or weapons that can be utilized at the same time.

Symbio-Stomach
The symbio-stomach is a frightening but effective upgrade.  It is created by actually growing an organic stomach into your ship, capable of digesting organic matter placed inside it and converting it into fuel.  Note that "Organic matter" usually means "Prisoners"--this is the closest thing you will ever have to a brig, it's self-cleaning, and you get free starship fuel to boot.  Multiple stomachs--and intestines--can be placed into the same ship, greatly increasing it's digestive efficiency (An overstuffed stomach takes much longer to digest).  Technically the security systems that seal off the stomach will deactivate and allow you entry if for some reason you want to enter, but be warned that Symbio-Stomach acids are not intelligent enough to discriminate between prisoners and crew.

Symbio-Intestines
The natural adjunct to Symbio-Stomachs, Symbio-Intestines add another stage to digestion, allowing more fuel to be gleaned from any given target and adding to the overall digestive capacity of your ship.  Intestines have a smaller capacity than stomachs and take longer to process prisoners, meaning a ship that is frequently fed will need several sections of it.  Symbio-Intestines must be placed following either Stomachs or another section of intestines.

Symbio-Bowels
These serve two functions.  First, there are often times when a prisoner has been 95% digested by your ship, but you still want that one little 5% more rather than just ejecting their undigestible remains into space.  Bowels allow this to occur, holding what little is left until the rest of it can be absorbed.  They have a fairly high capacity, but final absorbtion time is fairly slow.

Symbio-Throat
A highly specialized system with a somewhat misleading name and very unnerving purpose, Symbio-Throats actually deploy large tentacles to drag enemy boarding parties into your ship's digestive tract.

Shuttle Bay
Shuttle bays allow you to transport smaller vessels in your ship, such as shuttlecraft and fighters.  Shuttlecraft make landing on a planet's surface much safer than with a conventional lander, as most possess defensive weaponry that can provide a safe landing zone.  Fighters, on the other hand, provide a direct benefit in battle, as they can sally and attack enemy vessels on their own.  Fighters are very hard to hit, and are particularly effective against large space monsters.  Space monsters have little trouble swallowing large ships whole, but they find it much more difficult to swallow so many tiny, fast-moving targets.

Teleporter
Teleporters forego the need for a landing pod or shuttle to land on a planet's surface.  The primary advantage of this isn't getting to the planet, but rather, getting off of it--with a teleporter, you can leave the planet practically at any time.  It's not perfect, as it does require a short time to make the proper calculations for teleportation, meaning you have to stay alive on your own for a short while before it can teleport you out of a tight spot--and you have to hope that tight spot isn't a monster's stomach, as that will interfere with the teleporter's tracking system and make teleportation impossible.

Armor,Chassis Upgrades

Superstructure Frame
This procedure involves installing heavy armor belting and adding significant reinforcement to structural supports and the starship frame.  This procedure generally increases the overall weight of the starship, which can reduce maneuverability, but greatly increases it's general sturdiness and resistance to kinetic damage.  This upgrade is ideal for heavy, combat intensive ships, as it can increase any ship's overall survivability. (+25% HP, +10% weight, +1 Armor)

Featherweight Frame
Featherweight framing involves stripping out the superstructure of the ship and replacing it with durable, high-performance materials with extremely low overall weight.  The impact on the ship's durability is minor, but the ship's weight and maneuverability are both improved significantly with this upgrade.  This is an ideal upgrade for couriers, dogfighters, blockade runners and other high-speed ships. (-5% HP, -40% Weight)

Stripped Frame
Frame stripping involves miniaturizing, optimizing and removing parts of the ship's internal structure and converting it into cargo space.  This reduces the ship's weight and improves it's base cargo capacity, but the procedure weakens the ship's superstructure significantly and makes it more vulnerable to damage.  As the stripped components are re-sold or used for salvage, frame stripping is an extremely inexpensive procedure. (-15% HP, +50% cargo capacity)

Combat Framing
This is a frame overhaul specifically designed for combat ships.  It is similar to a superstructure frame, but uses materials that are far stronger and lighter.  Combat framing actually increases both the survivability and speed of a vessel, but the procedure is extremely expensive and is generally desirable for only the highest performance combat ships.  Combat framing also involves reinforcing and optimising the armor onboard a ship, making it more effective as well. (+20% HP, -15% Weight, +1 Armor)

Tank Framing
The so called 'Tank Frame' is a less expensive form of combat framing that gives a ship a huge increase in armor and survivability but practically cripples it's maneuverability.  It replaces standard framework with superheavy combat materials, along with actually adding several layers of additional armor to a ship's hull.  The armor reduces some of the ship's internal space, slightly reducing it's cargo capacity, but even most freighter captains consider this a negligible effect compared to the loss in speed and gain in armor.
(+50% HP, +40% weight, -10% cargo capacity, +3 Armor)

Armor Compression
This is a procedure in which your ship's armor is hypercompressed and strengthened, making it much harder to pierce, melt or dissolve.  The procedure is difficult and expensive, but it strengthens a ship's defenses with no real downside. (+5% HP, +1 Armor)

Hull Lacquer
Hull lacquer is a specially formulated coating applied to the outer hull that serves as protection against acid damage.  Prolonged exposure to acids can significantly degrade the level of protection offered, making it prudent to periodically apply fresh coats to the hull.

Polyrefractive Layering
This upgrade gives your ship's outermost armor an additional layer of charged crystalline shielding.  The specialized energy charge serves to reflect and refract the energy used in most laser weapons, greatly reducing the damage your ship will take from such weapons. (+1 Armor)

Armors

Steel
Starmail
Blue Adamant
Angelic Steel
Demonic Iron

System Upgrades (Multiple levels?  Cost more according to ship size?)

Ezotronic Circulation System,Shield Grid
Lvl 1: This adds an internal mechanism that runs shield energy alongside the main power grid, linking shield generators together and balancing the energy load between separate emitters according to what they are capable of producing.  This increases the effectiveness of all shielding systems onboard the ship.
Lvl 2: The improved version of the Ezotronic circulation system adds more efficient bridges and autonomous energy injectors to the shield grid, along with miniaturized cryoshunts that allow higher levels of shield energy to be conducted safely.  This allows the shielding grid to actually amplify shield energy as it is passed between shielding systems.
Lvl 3: The most effective circulation system replaces the standard bridges with prismatic bridges, along with tieing the shield energy grid into the ship's main turbines to greatly increase it's power.  It also laces the hull of the ship with tiny grid terminators which act as miniaturized shield emitters, allowing a vastly increased level of shield energy to be put out by the shield grid.

Frame Lacing
Lvl 1: The superstructure of your ship can be laced with lightweight, super-strong materials and reinforced in key areas to increase the ship's survivability without adding substantial weight to the vessel or changing it's base frame type.  This upgrade increases the damage capacity for any ship it is applied to. (+10% HP)
Lvl 2: In addition to structural lacing, specialized containment fields are introduced in key areas that prevent framework from buckling or snapping under heavy fire.  Vulnerable areas of the ship, such as fuel bays and energy cores, are mounted with autonomous shield systems to prevent secondary damage, and all fuel pipework in the vessel is thinly coated with a laser-reflective armor alloy. (+30% HP)
Lvl 3:  With this upgrade, all power conduction systems, wiring, and fuel lines in the ship are replaced with an advanced form of armored cabling that generates it's own localized shielding field along it's skin.  Shield and containment fields are conducted along all major support struts, and fuel and power cores are protected with centralized internal shielding from dedicated generators.  These upgrades can make a ship practically indestructible, and include their own power supplies to prevent them from requiring any support from the standard power grid. (+75% HP)

Supercharged Bridges
Lvl 1:  While there are modular energy bridges in standard weapons systems that can be replaced with higher-performance bridge components, this has no effect on the basic energy conduction structure in the weapon bay itself.  Bridge supercharging involves upgrading all of the intermediary bridges and conductors in the ship's weapon bays, along with adding turbofans and improved regulation controllers at each critical energy junction.  This serves to increase the effectiveness of all energy weapons onboard the ship without a need to alter any of the installed weapons.
Lvl 2:  Level two bridge supercharging adds additional power injection systems and a staggered amplification matrix to the conduction system, directly increasing weapon power at the cost of increased energy draw.
Lvl 3:  Level three bridge supercharging adds dedicated energy distribution controllers, liquid supercoolants and a more powerful amplification matrix to the system along with actually replacing key components in the power grid with high-powered secondary pulse amplification bridges in areas that lead to the weapons systems.  This leads to vastly improved overall weapons performance, regardless of the actual systems installed in the weapons bay.

Gimbal Upgrades
Level 1: This procedure involves superpolishing and coating the gimbal components that provide mobility to your turret systems, giving them greater mechanical efficiency and tracking speed.
Level 2: In addition to the previous procedures, level 2 gimbal upgrades replace certain components with more flexible piezomobile movement systems, along with tying the standard motion and tracking systems into an intelligent motion controller that combines pilot feedback with tracking data and optimizes the turret's movement based on them.
Level 3:  The highest level of gimballing involves a full replacement of the standard mechanism with a specialized energy field that allows unlimited rotation in any direction, at high speeds and with an equally high level of precision.  The vastly improved range of motion simplifies the calculations necessary for any tracking system to control the turret, and the system includes an advanced wireless sensor feedback system, giving tracking arrays a vast amount of targeting data to work with.

Turret Upgrades
Level 1: While Turrets do not have the infrastructure to support as expansive of a superbridging procedure as standard weapons bays, certain components can still be replaced and upgraded to achieve an effect similar to standard bridge supercharging.  With this upgrade, elements of the turret's weapon energy system are refined and replaced with upgraded components, enhancing weapon power and damage.
Level 2:  Level 2 turret upgrading adds specialized targeters to the turret along with customized intelligent movement controllers, increasing ease of use and turret reaction time along with allowing specific areas of the enemy ship to be struck much more accurately with weapons fire.  (+X% to critical percentage)
Level 3:  The final level of turret upgrading involves completely replacing the standard miniaturized turret weapon bays and replacing them with full weapon bays.  Though unable to support standard weapon bay upgrades, all damage loss associated with mounting a weapon in a turret is nullified.
